Hey, it's Alan.
It's Brent.
And we're back for 58.
58 what?
Episode number 58.
Episode 58.
S'quentaiocho.
Oh, I get it.
He's speaking a foreign language because today is Cinco de Mayo.
Woo hoo.
Which is for those of you not multilingual like Brent and I.
Stands for May 5th and May 5th is Spanish I believe for tacos and tequila.
It is.
Now, curiosity, what sort of tacos do you eat?
Oh, like restaurants or when I make tacos myself?
Yeah, like what's a tofu taco?
Ah, dude.
Yeah, I know.
Oh, fish tacos.
You can eat those.
Those are worth eating.
Vegiquarian.
So, going out, taco d'Aumard is of course good.
I prefer to make my tacos at home.
Are you corn or flour taco?
Depends.
Well, that's the right answer.
I kind of, I kind of go through phases to tell you the truth.
In my humble opinion, it's not a taco if it's on a flour tortilla.
Yeah, kind of.
It's something else, right?
It's a spajita or a...
Burrito.
An unrolled burrito.
Something.
Yeah, I prefer the corn tortillas too.
Soft or hard?
I get your mind out of the gutter.
Again, no preference.
It depends on the taco.
It kind of does.
Wow.
We have really expressed our opinions deeply here on the topic.
Tequila.
Yes.
What kind?
Blanco Reposado Anejo.
I generally go with Anejo.
I'm no longer in college and I can afford the good stuff.
Yeah, I do not like the...
I do not drink the Blanco Tequila.
It's just, I need a little bit of flavor to my tequila.
I don't mind sipping tequilas.
I'm beyond like shots of tequila.
As faithful listeners know, Brent, as a going away present from Microsoft, gave me a wonderful
bottle of tequila.
Tequila.
That's the male version of tequila.
Exactly.
It's extra manly.
Which there's still some left.
Really?
Yeah, it's a nice sipping tequila.
You can't sip every night.
I mean, my view is if you use tequila...
It doesn't go bad.
If you use tequila...
No, it does not.
But if you use tequila for mixed drinks, you want to start with a sipping tequila.
Yeah, and to be clear, when we make margaritas at home, it is good tequila.
None of this margarita mix, that's for college, all right?
Nothing processed or stripped you use.
All it's in the my margaritas is tequila, Cointreau, Orange liqueur from France, and lime.
Fresh lime.
Not out of the little plastic thing that looks like a lime.
Fresh squeezed lime, Cointreau, tequila, shaking over ice.
Oh, so good.
But now...
Yeah, shall we pause and go to the grocery store?
You know, usually I don't drink before 9, but today's it's Friday.
What the hell?
Cinco de Mayo.
It is.
We have a podcast.
We do.
Do you want to do that today or just...
I'm spending the time.
I mean, we might as well understand this.
Whatever.
Hey, so we...
This is 58, and our last episode was 57.
And I thought maybe we could talk just a little bit about 57 because it was an experiment
for us that was definitely a learning experience.
Maybe not in hindsight what...maybe the best thing we wanted for our listeners.
Not that it was to be fully clear.
I like Hans.
I think he's professional, very, very well versed in his craft.
Knows his stuff.
But maybe not...wasn't in hindsight wasn't the best match for the style of A-B testing.
Yeah, I agree.
As listeners know, we're not afraid to try things out.
My previous least favorite episode was the one we did at Redfin where we said, hey, let's
do a podcast and a presentation simultaneously.
I'm not aware of too many people doing that.
I think we may have learned why.
Yesterday, or the last episode...
That wasn't yesterday, it was last week.
Yeah, it's still fresh.
You know, it was our first time doing a call-in...
Guest, yeah.
It was a little different.
When we had Steve Rowe on the show, he was in the room with us, allowed for some more
interaction.
I had kind of hoped originally that we would have a little bit more interaction with Hans.
I blew that a little bit by having a half a dozen prepared questions.
Originally, I viewed those as sort of like our Kanban board, but we didn't really get
into a discussion.
I think it's a little bit because we're not quite in the same world of testing as Hans.
I don't know if it was the phone.
I'm not quite sure what combination it was, but it just didn't feel like a typical A-B
testing podcast.
With lots of good information, we even had one of the three say he liked it and there's
good information there, so I'm happy there.
Yeah, but the feedback from the three was...
The other two.
Yeah, the other two of the three, their feedback was essentially aligned, I think, more closely
to how we felt about it.
That it wasn't that sort of interview style with the type of information that was being
communicated isn't a great alignment for the A-B testing podcast.
It isn't.
I would, and I'm going to put this out here now, I would like to try another remote guest
sometime that we think will be a little bit more interactive and a little less structured
if someone that can handle that format and see if we can pull it off.
Because I'd love to have guests in once in a while and subject them to the A-B onslaught
of idiocy.
But I want to make sure it's going to require...
It's a narrower set of people than the world.
For sure.
You and I have talked of who I think is a good candidate for that.
Yeah, I think it'd be a good one we can get him on.
But also, the three, if you have suggestions.
I think that could be something we do from time to time.
I don't want to make it A-B and guest testing.
But I think it's, for the sake of variety and just getting some more opinions, as long
as we can do it with dialogue and discussion with the A-B style of shit flipping, I think
it'll work out.
I do think that's the next sort of guest that we do.
They need to realize that there's an informality on the A-B testing podcast as well as what
our listeners are looking for.
What differentiates us, in my view, from the other testing podcasts is, in a nutshell, we're
saying to exaggerate, we're essentially saying everything you learned about testing before
is not really valid as much as it used to be or not valid at all.
Yeah, a lot's changing.
You got through that well without saying testing is dead.
There is a quality revolution at foot.
There is.
You can embrace it and ride it or you can just STFU, I guess.
Yeah.
Plus, we had our typical unfair share of equipment issues pulling that together.
It was, in my view, there was some good content there for those who have an interest in that
space.
I don't think in general the people who are attracted to our podcast are interested in
learning that content.
There's other podcasts like that and people who want sort of the direct interview style.
There's lots of those out there.
I think we're on the same page, I think, with many of the listeners.
Is that great information?
It didn't feel like an A-B testing podcast.
It was an interview podcast that happened to include Alan and Brent.
We're going to continue to experiment once in a while, but most of the time, it will
just be us yelling at each other.
Well, again, we need to figure out how to make the informal style move across the wall
to guess, pre-inform them that, hey, this is what you should expect.
That horse has been beaten, but thanks for letting us reflect and dwell on that.
Shall we move on to the next item?
Yes.
Not all of what I'm doing as a manager at Unity.
Oh, wait.
Alan talks about working at Unity.
I don't have a fancy sound or sound effect for that, but that's what we're going to use.
I have liberally and massively pushed the Brent line on testing is, roll of tester is
to accelerate the achievement of shippable quality.
I love using that because it's generic enough, yet specific enough to apply across what I
want to do.
One thing I'm sure I've talked about before.
Drink.
I'll take one later.
Sinko De Mayo.
Sinko De Mayo!
It's that my QA org at Unity is everyone on the team minus my three leads are embedded
as members of feature teams.
They're part of the feature team.
I consider them to be the quality and testing expert on that feature team.
So then the question is, this is leading somewhere, the question is then, they're all working
within a feature team.
I have one on ones with the feature team lead, but they all report up through me.
So it's an odd organizational structure.
So in my mind, I view it as I don't run a QA organization.
I run a QA community, meaning that we can leverage each other to learn for some other
things.
I want to talk a little bit more about that.
In this sort of organization, I mentioned Community DeBrent, I think in passing last week.
He goes, I don't know if I agree with that.
I think he might have said I was stupid.
I can't remember.
It was somewhere in between there.
But I said, hey, let's discuss that on air next time.
Let's be real.
When I tell you I don't agree with that, it's the same thing.
Yeah.
It's what I hear versus what you're saying.
No, and what I'm telling you, it's the same thing.
Yeah, I know.
Okay.
Yeah.
So I'm going to start off with these.
This is our 58th damn episode.
Of course, I did one without you.
Remember?
Yeah, it's not our 58th.
Just to bring 57 back, it's our 57th.
So I will elaborate more on why I like that metaphor, or maybe it's not a metaphor, why
I like the concept of my org as community.
But I'm curious now, because I haven't heard it before, why you think that may not be the
best way to describe what I have, and there's a better way to do that.
So I actually, so Alan told me, I don't know, a week ago that he wanted to talk about this,
and I promised that I would do some research on this.
And then I remember this is the AB.
I remember this is the AB testing podcast.
So yeah, I didn't do that.
Or it could have just been, I forgot, or I'm lazy.
Well, you know, whatever.
Oh, we can do a poll.
Is Brent lazy?
Did he forget?
Or is he just stupid?
Know all of the above?
Okay.
D. Go on.
Go on.
All right.
So a couple of things.
First and foremost, like what you describe, tell me in your view, how is, how what you're
doing right now or how it's organized right now, how it's any different from the, just
to make this extra painful, the organizational structure pushed down on Microsoft by the
Office and Windows orgs, otherwise known as the functional org, where all the QA reports
to one discipline, but they're all expected to work together with members of the other
discipline.
You mean like traditional Microsoft, like triad org?
Yep.
I think the difference is, is that in that world, the test manager ran this test org
and they ran them independently.
And of course they worked across, but their work wasn't dictated by the rest of the feature
team, the developers on that feature team.
It wasn't?
Not that much, no.
Maybe not explicitly.
So.
Implicitly, it sure the hell was.
I don't know if that was consistent across the board.
I think that.
Come on.
How many times, like I faced over and over again.
Hey, we only have a month.
This is the whole reason why the test compression thing happened in that world all the damn time.
That was functioning in a typical waterfall model where they threw shit over the wall to
the test team.
Right.
If here's my shit, test it.
And they tested the crap out of it.
Here are the bugs and they fixed the bugs and the codependency went on and on until
they had this year long stabilization in office especially.
And when that was over, they shipped.
Okay.
So one key difference could be is essentially you're underfunding the feature teams in terms
of their QA folks so that they can't do that behavior.
If you're assigning basically QA coaches to all of these feature teams, right, then.
Right.
And they do, and to be fair, they do plenty of testing.
They're doing, they're not writing the unit test for the developers as many of those office
testers did.
They are working with the dev team to.
I had repressed that.
Understand what testing needs to get done.
They're definitely not writing unit tests.
They're writing some integration tests, looking at some end-to-end scenarios, looking at
what can fail, looking at customer data.
They're just, they're doing what they can to accelerate the achievement of shipable
quality.
But they're very tightly knit in a team of, you know, six, seven, at most eight people.
And it could be the difference between functioning that way within an agile team versus the waterfall
teams that Microsoft had.
But what they do is they're much more, imagine if you had, if I was going to build a team
nav, I'm going to have a startup.
I have eight people.
Say I'm going to hire seven people.
I'm going to hire, I want to hire diverse.
I want to hire specialized and generalists.
And one of those people is going to be able to specialize in testing quality issues.
And that's how each of my feature teams is structured now.
So the question is then that I, that I've been asked by one, just in one part of my
org is, well, why would, why wouldn't they all just report to the dev manager?
All their work comes from there.
And this is where my concept to community comes in.
This is why I feel as a community more than an organization, because the benefit I provide
in running this org is in with my experience in the testing world is making
connections between people in the QA orgs.
They can learn new concepts from each other.
As we, anybody listening to this podcast knows testing is much more complex.
It's an iceberg of stuff.
There's a metaphor there, but it's good.
Testing is much more complex than it appears on the surface.
And I want in order for my team to grow and get better at doing what they do,
being the quality coach, the accelerator, whatever, they need to be able to learn
from each other and I want to provide a mechanism for which to learn.
And what I'm providing is going to the five orders of ignorance, look them up.
I'm not going through them all is a suitable method to learn what you don't know.
You don't know.
That's what my community provides is, is, is a way, if you discover what you
don't know, you don't know.
So you can go, Oh, I didn't know that.
Now I know it.
That is a method of, of course, knowledge acquisition.
So I'm using community as a way of facilitating learning.
I get, I get, I get where you're coming from.
And I do agree that the community aspect is going to be important for success.
Yeah.
Let me, let me just interrupt it.
I'm going to read the definition of community before my eyes fade.
And then you can go on the applicable definition, a feeling of fellowship with
others as a result of sharing common attitudes, interests, and goals.
Yeah.
And as a QA organization, we absolutely must have and do that.
So it's, um, it's MS poll season.
Oh God.
At Microsoft.
I miss it so much.
Please let me take the Microsoft poll.
So I may fill out data that my managers may poo-poo and ignore or throw a
morale event on the day of the poll to skew the results.
Or quickly pull together.
A very quick reactionary, uh, meeting shortly after that, so that a year from now,
management can take credit for taking action based off of the poll.
Yeah.
My experience of poll results is take immediate credit for anything that
improves and, uh, dismiss the rest as an anomaly.
Yeah.
It's actually, actually that is, uh,
I didn't mean to rag on Microsoft, but it was like Brent put a softball up
there as big as a beach ball.
And I had a big bat.
No.
So you just described actually, uh, the, the, and another way of framing the
main problem with entity metrics.
Cause that happens pretty much every time with entity metrics.
Lots of common bias.
I'm going to, uh, believe the parts I like and discard the points I don't.
One of my favorite ones.
Like I, um, just as an aside, something we kind of do here.
Um, there's been this one metric that I've been watching, uh, and
watching, uh, PM behavior.
And I noticed that the metric is sinusoidal.
So it goes up and down and up and down, up and down almost
exactly to the reporting cadence.
So in, in one month, it'll be up the next month, it'll be down the next
month, it'll be up the next month.
It'll be down.
Okay.
And it's, it's been fun.
Um, there was this one PM that was responsible for presenting it.
And, um, I pulled her aside and I said, after observing, she's relatively
new and after observing what was going on, I'm like, can I show you
something because what, every time it was up, Hey, yell our, our
implementation.
So last month I reported that, that everything was in the can and this
is what we did and look, it's up.
Yay us.
And then the next month it was, yeah, we don't, this appears to be an outlier.
We're not certain what actually caused this.
So, and we're going to do some investigation and then the next month,
Hey, so we investigated it.
Oh my God.
And I'm just like, you got to look at the pattern as a whole.
And really the pattern as a whole, as like if I said, like we would need to do a
drill down and, um, probably do some AB testing on these things or, or,
what are the other kinds of AB testing?
There are many.
Yeah.
Just for a second.
Do, um, we would want to, to decompose the data a bit differently to, to say,
to statistically validate that when we say it's having an improvement, it's
actually having an improvement because just looking at this, I'm going to say,
no, everything we've done, just looking at this trend, everything we've done
has had no effect and actually there's some other pattern that's happening.
Now it's, it is entirely possible that when it's on the high, it's also
could be like every time it's on the high, that's actually, Hey, we really
improved and so dev gets sloppy and then breaks it, but the fact that it's a,
it's a recurring pattern that's up and down, I'm like, yeah, I don't think that's
true anyway, back to community.
Oh no, before we get there, uh, it reminds me, I haven't visited that,
that site that shows, uh, causation without correlation, correlation without
causation, like murders coincide with, um, Johnny Depp movies.
Right.
Yeah.
I will try and find it for the show notes, but it's a great example of how
you can, uh, yeah, of this actually.
Yeah.
And there's, there are ways to actually, um, tell the truth better.
I actually, uh, my, um, without using alternative facts, are we, are we.
Right there, but it takes analysis.
It takes realizing what you're doing.
Like, um, my PM, he and I spent two hours yesterday on what should be a simple
problem, but as we sat down and sort of decomposed it, we realized, Nope,
this is much harder, um, to prove like what we're trying to do.
Um, we have a new UI and what we're trying to prove is that this new
yet UI is preventing people from creating CSS tickets.
Okay.
And their initial metric was very simple.
If they can, if they get to a certain point in the flow and then they cancel
out of it, yay, pat ourselves on the back.
And I'm like, um, there are other reasons why they could be canceling.
Well, we need to do a comparison of like, if the canceling with this, this,
with this new UI behavior, if the rate of canceling with this new UI
behavior is roughly equivalent to the rate of canceling without this new UI behavior.
Yeah.
Uh, no, that's just curiosity.
Most likely, right?
Not an actual, yay, pat ourselves on the back, uh, adventure.
Um, but we, we came up with, uh, an interesting approach, um, and one where
we can analyze like what's happening with the customer behavior.
And, and if we don't like the numbers, it, uh, in certain places, we now
know exactly where to drill in to further explain what's happening so
that we can publish, uh, a back, a backlog of improvements by ROI behavior.
Like, um, this is customer behavior stuff and I love this work.
It's not on my backlog.
So, um, and my team yells at me when I pick up a shiny thing.
So I, I'm, I know what I'm going to be doing this weekend.
All right.
Anyway, can we go back to community?
Yeah.
All right.
Yeah, we can now.
Um, so my problem with how you phrased it.
So I completely agree community is going to be an important part of this.
Oh, um, now I remember why I went on the sidetrack.
So we did the MS poll.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
15 minutes ago.
You have, you have to unstack, you have to unwind the stack in order.
So MS poll, MS poll.
We already made fun of it.
Um, can't guarantee we're done.
Couple of the feedback.
So we, uh, uh, my manager runs a data science team as do I.
And one of the things that popped in the poll was a need for better collaboration
and better innovation.
And, um, we had one of our lower level ICs sort of drive the MS poll deconstruction.
Now, one of the problems I had actually with it, with it, and it's fascinating.
Like I work with a bunch of data scientists, but they are, I don't know.
It just turns out the data scientists are human too.
And, um, like I, for now, you know, five years from now that might change.
But the, the, what I have is a built up through my training is, uh, after I've
think through something, I go, okay.
Now what biases have been put into play that are going to invalidate my results
before I go off and, and gather this data, right?
So this poor kid had had a discussion with, with my manager and my manager
primed him with what the big problems are.
And so when he got the team together to decompose, they went into problem
solving mode on those problems.
Instead of them communicating what they view, what's the biggest problems.
Right.
I'm just like, okay, this isn't going to go well because, um, just because
the manager thinks it's the biggest problem.
And that's generally because, Hey, on MS-Pola scored low doesn't mean
the employees actually care or it's the biggest problem to the employees.
Anyway, collaboration and innovation.
And one of the things I told him, I'm like, Oh, that's interesting.
And he said, well, why?
And I got to, uh, do something with him that the listeners of A.B.
testing know, and that is on the topic of innovation, where do new ideas come from?
They come from other ideas, Brent.
Yes.
So if you don't have a collaborative environment, what likely is your
environment like on the topic of innovation?
Uh, without any collaboration, your, uh, opportunity for innovation,
I would say is very small.
You, you are relying on, um, a much smaller set of people who will go off and do their
learning themselves offline.
Absolutely.
Um, so you're relying on, I don't know, innovation heroes.
I think collaboration is essential and, and communication and just sharing
whatever is essential for innovation.
Yeah.
Why, why I have a community go on collaboration, knowledge sharing
are critical to two big, important things, innovation and productively, um, reducing,
uh, maintenance costs and, and duplication of effort.
Sure.
Right.
Now I almost didn't say duplication of effort, um, because I am not one of those
people who say duplication of effort is evil always.
Um, who would say that?
Lots of, lots of, lots of people.
Well, they're stupid.
No, I mean, you've not been, I agree, but have you not been in a meeting where someone's
like, Alan, you're duplicating effort.
And that's, and they view that as the coup de gras winning stroke for the
argument.
I'm not, I, they're stupid too.
Right.
So you don't get a pass.
I do think knowledge sharing is critical, but when you're talking about, um, when
you're talking about you as the re the, the manager of a reporting structure,
um, saying that you're, you're essentially a community organizer.
Not entirely, but largely.
Yeah.
Um, I don't know.
It feels weird saying that in some, in a, in a formal structure.
What I think, uh, and the other thing too is you're also saying, um, and,
and you're exceptional at community organization on, um, particularly on the
quality knowledge sharing topic, you want to drive action to some degree.
Yeah.
And then the knowledge sharing aspects, there's a high degree of
optionality in there, if, if you're going to have, uh, them sort of take command
from the PO of their individual feature team or whatever the structure is that unity.
I'm actually thinking what you want to do is formalize that a bit more and, and
leverage, um, matrix organization style.
Yeah.
I think there's nothing wrong with that.
That's not something I'm against and pro and I'm doing some of that already.
But if you look at, uh, a sense of, yeah, community is an important thing,
but there should be some small force of that or some small subset of that where
in essence you're saying, no, this is in fact forced knowledge sharing.
Well, I think it's important to remind you in the three of the context where
unity has many, many services spread out across many locations and their
different backgrounds and contexts and how they came into being.
Right.
So what I, one of my goals is to establish, I don't believe that we
should use the exact same tools, exact same processes across all services, but
there is a prime opportunity for growth in finding some aspects of collaboration
and consistency across those.
So, and you and I both know, uh, that rather than me tell the team, do this,
I can highlight some good ideas of course, but one way is to motivate teams
to try something new is to celebrate the successes in another part of
the team five, one part of the team.
That's really good at using monitoring to, uh, to predict, uh, customer
failure or something interesting with data.
And I want to push that behavior.
Right.
Um, I'm going to go celebrate that.
This is really cool.
Did this little blob, maybe get the person to like write a few lines on it,
whatever, not make it over the top, but I want to have these frequent, like,
here's a really cool thing.
Someone did here.
Someone created a nice fake back end, nice mock framework with it.
And they did, we're able to do this and this and this, or somebody
did blah, blah, blah.
I want to highlight those things and highlight the things I want to see the
larger part of the org do.
And so that's one method of sharing and community.
I believe that's part of community.
I want to, uh, I want to, there's names for this that I've forgotten at the
time, but we've all read plenty of books around how, why an anecdote, so
like why this approach works with my community metaphor is for me to
facilitate those kinds of things and why I justify, I don't need to
justify it, but why I feel honestly feel it's very valuable to have this
QA organization reporting to me where they work within team spread
across the entire company.
Yeah.
The just, just a small bit of guidance.
If you hadn't thought about that, when you do that, that, that public
praising, right, what I would do is, uh, so make it a positive version
of Alan soapbox, whereas on AB testing, it's generally rants.
This would be, uh, the yay, the cheerleading version.
Absolutely.
And, but let me, there's a button here, but directly tie it to published
principles, um, that you say are important for the next fiscal year
or things like that, that way you don't run the risk.
And again, I, I'm very aware that the, the culture at Unity is likely to
be very different than here, but you do not want to run the risk of, of
a particular team that never gets called out, um, saying you're excluding
us, like you want to be able to make it very clear, like I don't give
a crap about who's doing it.
I'm going to praise those who are, are clearly showing
advancements sort of the principles.
And you also don't want to be accused of favoritism.
Yeah.
If there's one team that gets you, like they run the risk of, of them
being the ones that you praise most often and that the focus ends off.
Oh, Alan just loves that team.
Definitely keep that in mind, but that is, uh, would be much more
of a problem at Microsoft teams.
Good.
I mean, for me, no, but for you.
Yeah.
Um, and then the other thing that it reminds me of is, is my training was safe.
So safe has this role called the architect and the architect is kind of, um,
sounds to me, to me, it feels very fiddle or familiar to what you're doing.
So at planning events, the architect, their job is to say, Hey guys, you guys are
empowered to figure out how you do this.
But by this date, I want all my feature teams to have converged to this
principle or this specific architecture.
Or like an example, when I went through it, it was, um, uh, Hey, we have a new
Java security update, uh, by the second quarter of this year, everyone must
have moved to the latest update.
Right.
So it creates a way of where you're creating a mo, uh, motivation, a specific
requirement that motivates knowledge sharing, but without, you know, without
being a high level executive douchebag that does things like, I don't care.
Everyone in Microsoft will use WTT.
WTT for those on the acronym patrol is a, um, it's an acronym for a test
framework in windows.
So it was called a wasting testers time.
No, no, no.
I'm sorry.
Um, windows test technologies.
No, I mean, I refer to it as WTF.
Yeah.
WTF frame.
She's okay.
Anyway, but I mean, so thankfully the WTT problems from my view has been resolved.
People, people are empowered to solve their own problems.
Now, what I'm rewinding a little bit.
So what I hear you saying is not necessarily that you disagree with the
idea of the community metaphor at all, but to be careful that it's not, don't
frame it as a don't frame it entirely as it's part of what it is more than
that is what it is building that community is your secondary goal, not
your primary, that's, that's what I'm saying.
I agree with that.
It gives me a way to, I like the concept because as I mean, I am, you may have
you three, uh, I don't know what it's like at other companies, but these
testers are very much embedded as part of the dev team.
They could, in a lot of companies, they would just report to the dev manager.
I think they are better suited for their career and better suited for their
learning, working for me and being that expert and growing in that way.
So I think the community is very important, but perhaps you're right.
I should think about whether how much I stake, uh, the QA community as
what it is versus, um, other goals.
Is community your destination or the vehicle your community
community is the vehicle.
Right.
So don't frame it as the destination.
That's all.
All right.
That's all I'm saying.
Yeah, whatever.
We spent 20 minutes talking about third depends on editing.
That's it.
Okay.
Good discussion.
Good to be back.
Shall we go on to, uh, number four?
Sure.
Did we skip three?
That was three.
All right.
You ready?
Yeah.
Cause I need to warm up for this.
And me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me,
um, male bag.
You're doing the thing at the end now.
Is that a new thing?
Yeah.
You're mixing it up.
Mixing it up.
So we have a male bag from, uh, Marcus.
Marcus.
Thank you for being one of the three.
And Marcus has a question about money.
Yes, please.
All right.
Marcus says, would love to hear opinion and thoughts around
budget challenges and testing.
It's budget season for me and my team.
And in my team, it can be difficult to do what's needed, innovate,
change, and keep improving when restrictions on people and equipment
spend keep appearing.
I've been reading essentialism and moving toward nothing less.
And this fits with data driven quality.
Somewhat and focusing on the essential.
It's helping for sure.
Any thoughts and help appreciated.
So, uh, budget money, not enough.
Short end of the stick, whatever it's budget.
I'm sure a budget season is, or you, I actually, I know from
Microsoft budget season is when you have to somehow predict how
much money you're going to spend in the next fiscal year, which
starts on July 1st.
Yeah.
Something that I, my budget was so far off in just in my six
months of FY 17, whatever it was.
Not my fault really at all, but it was just a mess.
So it definitely not having to deal with budget at that level, uh,
is very much good, very much good for my blood pressure.
Anyway, go ahead and give it a shot.
Right.
Oh, well, so I haven't read essentialism.
Have you?
No, no.
Okay.
So let's, let's answer the other parts of the question.
Like, well, so we, we can't be obligated to read things.
No, we do that proactively.
You right.
Right.
So we didn't read that, but I, I get the gist of what it's about.
Only the essential.
Although I did pick up the, uh, book you suggested from Ron Jeffery.
Oh yeah.
What'd you think of that?
Oh, I mean, I've only scanned it right now, but I'm like, I like this format.
It kind of reminds me of, um,
but you could have written that book.
It's like all stuff I've heard Brent spew out.
Yeah.
This is the, uh, the nature of software development by Ron Jeffries.
It, it, it almost, uh, just scanning through it, it, it kind of feels like, like
the, the slide deck version of Ryan Edgson's book.
Maybe.
Yeah.
Uh, anyway.
So, and one thing maybe missing from 57 was there were no tangents.
Tangents are part of who we are.
It's our DNA.
So, uh, budgets, budgets, budgets, budgets.
So I have spent the majority of my career, although I think that's, that's
coming up to now nearly 50 50.
Like I've spent a large portion of my career as a middle management.
And, um, like my strategy to this one, this particular problem has been rather
effective and that is to read, uh, reverse delegate this to my manager.
That, that, that works quite well for me.
What?
So in terms of the back and depend entirely on your manager.
Oh, no, it can.
But well, well done.
Um, the, the budget problems, right.
You have these resource constraints.
You have, you have, uh, these equipment constraints, right.
And when you, the last few times that I've had to deal with this and the last
time was in, was when I was in Bing, which is now five years ago, um, it's
nice actually being in compute because there's a strong feeling that that compute
is the, an important future.
So, um, we, for a good long time, we've been pretty much getting
everything we want, we want it on the budget.
Like the last time I had to deal with this, it was essentially, all right.
I put a number out.
I can, I, I, I go, all right, if we're going to keep doing the things
that we've been doing, so if we're going to do it in the evolutionary
process, then you, then it's relatively easy to say, all right, this is from
historical measures, you pull things together and you go, this is, this is
my prediction and you, you buffer up because, um, predictions are almost
always wrong and then you go through the process of renegotiating because almost
always everyone has submitted a budget.
That's true with budget everywhere.
Yeah.
So let me, um, the one thing about me on this one though is, is I go, okay,
these are the goals I got to achieve.
Uh, that I'm expecting to have to achieve in the next year.
Um, these are the things where I absolutely have to have money to do that.
Um, like if I know I'm going to need another, you know, couple thousand
machine resources, uh, to pull off the scenarios that we're sort of predicting.
Um, then I will, I will put that in.
Let me throw, throw my perspective in because it, budget covers a lot of things,
but as far as essentialism goes, what's that book, first break all the rules.
Does the concept, the title apply something else.
Um, one is I think machines are work machines are cheap.
You just buy them.
I think if you're looking at, uh, Microsoft traditionally just buy hardware all the
time versus use services like sauce labs or cobit on or any of the others, uh,
look into those, uh, cause you have to, when you think about budget and one way
to negotiate more budget for a license or something like that is you're not using
office space and again at Microsoft to go, well, it's a different budget,
so it doesn't matter, but it's, it's all still money.
Like lab space in Redmond and Bellevue is very expensive.
You can use that in a virtual farm, whether it's, um, Amazon, um, what do they
call it? Amazon device farms also very good.
So that can cover a lot of your testing stuff and make it actually easier to
automate and make it so you don't have to have an office or a set of offices
taken down to build a lab.
There's a lot of specifics with the, what, before you go, the,
my final point on the budget one was essentially after you get,
go through the negotiation, right?
It's, it's a lot, you expect that your budget going to be shrunk.
I'm not really afraid of budgets because I've over the years I've come up with,
as long as it's within a certain point, I've come up with creative solutions.
We're talking about two sides of this. There's one,
there's the whole in the budget negotiation,
which you put out something that makes sense and you get what they give you,
but then it's about being creative after that.
That's maybe looking into device farm versus devices.
It is looking at like one thing I've learned at Unity,
I've mentioned to you at least privately,
but that everyone working anyplace else except for Microsoft has figured out is
that everybody just has a laptop and they plug it into monitors and the keyboard
at work. And it's a way of not buying everybody a PC and a laptop.
You can be creative and say, Hey,
we're going to try this out because it actually works in everywhere else in
the world except for Microsoft. Other things are,
there's maybe say there's a growth of 20 heads added to your team for the
next year. You're a growing team. And of course,
the dev manager takes 16 of them and gives you four and you're going, well,
shit, I'm going to need six to get what I want to get done. You're at,
you are in the advantage in this case. So let's say it's,
let's say it's 14 and six. I know I need more.
It's stupid of me to ask for more unless all of mine are filled.
So my strategy there is fill the damn heads quickly.
And then what I've done successfully before in which I plan to do at unity
is show, although our ratios are much smaller is show like,
like I'm talking to the Devlin and go, Oh, this is really cool. Test idea.
I want to blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And it's going to be awesome.
He goes, that's really cool. Why aren't you doing that? Ah,
I can, I need one more head to get it done. Well, I have extra heads.
Take one of mine. And yeah, it's,
it works because you only have six to fill and they may be a little harder
than filling the Dev heads. But once those are filled and you're out of
heads and you can show that you need more bodies to get the work done.
That your peers sees as necessary.
They're absolutely going to give you that head.
Unless they're just a total dick wad. Uh, so you can use that. And, and,
but there are the challenge in budgets is not in the budgeting process.
It's how to deal with the hand you're dealt afterwards. Well,
and when you're dealing with vendor companies, they'll always negotiate down.
They want your business,
whether it's people for a contract resources or for, uh, services,
uh, they will always try and Microsoft though,
my feeling at Microsoft is they'll always try and charge you more because you
work at Microsoft and Microsoft budget managers are shitty at negotiation.
The, the other thing I'll say like it in,
in the typical Microsoft budget, cause you also have to,
you have to estimate your budget numbers in,
into different line items and you're not allowed to move money.
And way, way, way, way, way in advance of actually knowing what's going to go
on. Yeah. So there's that prediction nature. Um,
like it is may now and it's late for budgeting now or probably late to answer
this question,
but Marcus is budgeting for the year beginning July 1st going through July 1st
2018. Yeah, it might be late. Uh, sorry, Marcus.
So generally you, you get the budget in June,
may not be late, but it, I mean, if the due date hasn't happened yet,
it's soonish. Um, and so things like, um,
like when it comes to payroll money, I want flexibility.
Uh, I want the ability to go,
I don't want to have to hire a full timer for a project that I,
that I know is coming and I expect to only last three months.
Right. Right. Um, yeah,
but it's so hard in the work that you and I do, maybe me, especially,
uh, to know what I'm going to need that far in advance, like, Oh yeah. And in
January, I'll need someone for three months.
Now this is why I like my budget to be, to be, um, uh,
as aggregated as possible. Here's your payroll budget.
Here's your human resource budget. Right. And so then I can say, Hey,
the full timers I need are the ones for, uh,
the work that I'm going to sustain. But, uh,
we're in an agile world now and it doesn't,
it doesn't come in as a continuous request. It's bursty.
And I want the ability to be able to, to, uh, deal with the burst loads.
Now I, uh, Marcus, he's in the games group, right? Um,
and I know they have a bursty season, but that bursty season,
I think is a bit more predictable than in, in my world.
Right. Um, like, uh,
I have now learned when Mexico's tax season is no ideas.
Oh, I was just talking to my employees this morning. He's doing some work. Uh,
I own also the website and every all puts all the payment systems. Yep.
And like he is, uh,
he was talking about all the tax codes everywhere that he had to learn in order
to figure out how to do this testing. I thought, holy crud.
Yeah. The, for the testing, that's one thing I mean,
I remember back in the day when I, so for whatever reason in my career,
I spent a good portion testing calendaring. Um,
actually I shouldn't start because actually the coolest bugs live there.
I implemented the daylight savings time,
daylight saving time algorithm for a C E way back when the, um,
and so it's one, like one of the,
it's why I decided to be a tester instead of a developer.
One of the fun facts that comes up very rarely is, is, uh,
Hey leap day doesn't work the way most people think it works.
It's not every four years as an example. Well, not every four years,
mostly every four years with, with exceptions. Right. Outliers. Yeah.
Most people know that. Well, smart people.
You hang around with too many dummies. Um,
the what did Marcus ask specifically?
Did we just ramble on about budgets?
I think we gave him good enough answer for AB.
Okay. Mainly because we're out of time. Yeah. All right.
It's been fun. Good to be back. I think we're recording again next week.
We are. Sinko did was 12.
Don't say, don't say Sinko did. Don't say that's probably doesn't mean tequila.
No, you just said five of 12. Oh, don't say the mile. Yeah. God.
Speaking of Brent hanging around with dumb people, I'm Alan. I'm Brett.
And we'll see you next time on AB testing.